.\" Copyright (C) International Business Machines  Corp., 2003
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH dhcp6s 8

.SH NAME
dhcp6s \- DHCPv6 server daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhcp6s
[
.B -vf
] [
.B -c
.I <pathspec>
] [
.B -p
.I <pathspec>
]
.I <interface>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhcp6s
is an implementation of the DHCPv6 server.

.B dhcp6s
provides IPv6 addresses and prefix assginment administrative policy and
configuration information for DHCPv6 clients. dhcp6s also manages those
addresses and prefixes, such as IPv6 addresses, prefixes, DNS server
addresses, or ntp server addresses.

Interface names are specified according to your operating system's
conventions.  On Linux, this is typically eth0, eth1, and so on.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\ pathspec
Specifies the
.B dhcp6s
configuration file.

.TP
.BI \-p\ pathspec
Specifies the
.B dhcp6s
PID file.

.TP
.BI \-v
Enables
.B dhcp6s
to print verbose debugging messages.

.TP
.BI \-f
Enables
.B dhcp6s
to work as a foreground application.  This option is helpful for debugging.

.SH FILES
.TP
.BI /etc/dhcp6s.conf
Contains dhcp6s configurations, such as allow unicast, allow rapid-commit,
specify valid-life-time, or specify preferred-life-time.

.TP
.BI /var/lib/dhcpv6/dhcp6s_duid
Contains the dhcp6s server's DUID.

.TP
.BI /var/lib/dhcpv6/server6.leases
Contains all dhcp6c clients' IPv6 address and prefix leasing information and
states.

.SH SEE ALSO
dhcp6s.conf(5)

.SH ERRORS
Check /var/log/messages if there are errors.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs via http://fedorahosted.org/dhcpv6/

.SH AUTHORS
See http://fedorahosted.org/dhcpv6/wiki/Authors
