.\" Copyright (C) International Business Machines  Corp., 2003
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH dhcp6c 8

.SH NAME
dhcp6c \- DHCPv6 client daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhcp6c
[
.B -vfI
] [
.B -r
.I all
|
.I <address...>
] [
.B -R
.I <address...>
] [
.B -P
.I <address...>
] [
.B -c
.I pathspec
]
.I <interface>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhcp6c
is an implementation of the DHCPv6 client.

Using DHCPv6 messages and DHCPv6 options,
.B dhcp6c
is used to request and configure IPv6 addresses and host network configuration
information (e.g., DNS) for a network interface from the DHCPv6 server. It can
also be used as a requesting router to request and configure Prefix Delegation
for a subnet.

The assigned IPv6 addresses and prefixes are saved as
/var/lib/dhcpv6/client6.leasesXXXXXX; this file is used to request the same
addresses and prefixes from the DHCPv6 server.  Each
.B dhcp6c
client has a client DHCP Unique Identifier (DUID); the DUID file is saved as
/var/lib/dhcpv6/dhcp6c_duid.
The
.B dhcp6c
client configuration is defined in /etc/dhcp6c.conf.

Interface names are specified according to your operating system's
conventions.  On Linux, this is typically eth0, eth1, and so on.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\ pathspec
Specifies the configuration file for
.B dhcp6c

.TP
.BI \-v
Enables
.B dhcp6c
to print debugging messages.

.TP
.BI \-f
Enables
.B dhcp6c
to work as a foreground application.  This option is helpful for debugging.

.TP
.BI \-I
Allows
.B dhcp6c
to request network information only.  Do not configure the interface.

.TP
.BI \-r\ all\ |\ <addresses...>
Allows
.B dhcp6c
to release the addresses specified.
This option is used only when releasing addresses explicitly.

.TP
.BI \-R\ <addresses...>
Allows
.B dhcp6c
to request the specified named addresses.

.TP
.BI \-P\ <addresses...>
Allows
.B dhcp6c
to request the specified prefix delegation addresses.

.SH FILES
.TP
.BI /etc/dhcp6c.conf
Contains DHCPv6 client configuration information.

.TP
.BI /var/lib/dhcpv6/dhcp6c_duid
Contains DHCPv6 client DUID.

.TP
.BI /var/lib/dhcpv6/client6_leasesXXXXXX
Contains DHCPv6 client assigned IPv6 addresses and prefixes.

.SH ERRORS
Check /var/log/messages if there are errors.

.SH SEE ALSO
dhcp6c.conf(5)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs via http://fedorahosted.org/dhcpv6/

.SH AUTHORS
See http://fedorahosted.org/dhcpv6/wiki/Authors
